in the clustering problem we are given
an unlabeled data set
and we would like to have an algorithm
automatically group the data into
coherent subsets or into coherent
clusters for us the k-means algorithm is
by far the most popular by far the most
widely used clustering algorithm and in
this video I'd like to tell you what the
k-means algorithm is and how it works
the convenient clustering algorithm is
best illustrated in pictures let's say I
want to take an unlabeled data set like
the one shown here and I want to group
the data into two clusters if I run the
k-means clustering algorithm here's what
I'm going to do the first step is to
randomly initialize two points called
the cluster centroids so these two
crosses here these are called the
cluster centroids and I have two of them
because I want to group my data into two
clusters k-means is an iterative
algorithm and it does two things first
is a cluster assignment step and second
is a roof centroid step so let me tell
you what those things mean the first of
the two steps in the inner loop of
k-means is this cluster assignment step
what that means is that it's going to go
through each of the examples each of
these green dots shown here and
depending on whether it is closer to the
red cluster centroid or the blue cluster
centroid it is going to assign each of
the data points to one of the two
cluster centroids specifically what I
mean by that is going to go through your
data set and color each of the points
either red or blue depending on whether
it's closer to the red cluster centroid
or the blue cluster centroid and I've
done that in this diagram here so that
was the cluster assignment step the
other part of k-means the inner loop of
k-means is the move centroid step and
what we're going to do is going to take
the two closest central is that is the
Red Cross and the Blue Cross and we'll
move them to the average of the points
colored the same color so what I'm going
to do is look at all the red points and
compute the average was really the mean
the location of all the red points and
we're going to move the red cluster
centroid there and the same thing for
the blue cluster Center look at all the
blue dots and compute their mean and
then move the blue cluster centroid
there so let me do that now we'll move
the cluster centroids as follows and
I've now moved them to that new means
into the red one move like that and the
do one move like that and a great one
move like that and then we go back to
another cluster assignment step so we're
again going to look at all of my
unlabeled examples and depending on
whether it's closer to the red or the
blue cluster centroid I'm going to color
them either red or blue so I'm going to
assign each point to one of the two
cluster centroids let me do that now and
so the colors of some of the points just
changed and then I'm going to do another
move centroid step so I'm going to
compute the average of all the blue
points compute the average of all the
red points and move my cluster centroids
like this and so let's do that again let
me do one more cluster assignment step
so color each point red or blue based on
what is closer to and then do another
roof centroid step and we're done and in
fact if you keep running additional
iterations of k-means from here the
k-means the cluster centroids will not
change any further and the colors of the
points will not change any further and
so you know this is the at this point
k-means has converged and it's done a
pretty good job finding the two clusters
in this data let's write out the k-means
algorithm more formally the k-means
algorithm takes two inputs one is a
parameter K which is the number of
clusters you want to find in the data I
like to say how we might go about trying
to choose K but for now let's just say
that we've decided we want a certain
number of clusters and we're going to
tell the algorithm how many clusters we
think they're on the days
and then k-means also takes as input
this sort of unlabeled training set of
just the exits and because this is
unsupervised learning we don't have the
labels wine and for unsupervised
learning or for K means I'm going to use
the convention that X I is an RN
dimensional vector and that's why my
training examples are now n-dimensional
rather than n plus 1 dimensional vectors
this is what the k-means algorithm does
the first step is that it randomly
initializes K cluster centroids which
we'll call nu 1 nu 2 up to MU K and so
in the earlier diagram the cluster
centroids corresponding to the location
of the Red Cross and the location of the
Blue Cross so there we have to cluster
centroids so maybe the Red Cross was new
one and the Blue Cross was u2 and more
generally we would have k cluster
centroids rather than just two then the
inner loop of K means less the following
we're going to repeatedly do the
following first for each of my training
examples I'm going to set this variable
CI
DVD index 1 through K of the cluster
centroid process to XR so this was my
cluster assignment step where we took
each of my examples and colored it
either red or blue depending on which
cluster centroid it was closest to think
so CI is going to be a number from 1 to
K that tells us you know is it closer to
the red cross or as a closer to the Blue
Cross and another way of writing this is
on I'm going to for each to compute C
I'm going to take my life example X I
and I'm going to measure its distance to
each of my cluster centroids this mu and
then a lowercase K right so capital K is
the total number of centralising I'm
going to use lowercase K here to index
into the different centroids but so CI
is going to I'm going to minimize over
my values of K and find the value of K
that minimizes the distance between X I
the centroid and then you know the value
that minimizes the value of K that
minimizes this that's what's to get set
into CI so here's another way of writing
out what C is they've a right the norm
between X I minus mu K then this is the
distance between my I for training
example X I and the cluster centroid mu
subscript K this is this here that's a
lowercase K so uppercase K is going to
be used to denote the total number of
cluster centroids and this lowercase K
you know the lowercase K is number
between 1 and capital K just using
lowercase K to index into my different
cluster centroids Nexis lowercase K so
on that's the distance between an
example in the cluster centroid and so
what I'm going to do is find the value
of K of lowercase K that minimizes this
and so the value of K that minimizes
this you know that's what I'm going to
set as CI and by convention here I've
written the distance between X on the
cluster centroid by convention people
actually tend to write this as the
squared distance so we think of CI as
picking the cluster centroid with the
smallest squared distance to my training
example X I but of course minimizing
squared distance and minimizing distance
that should give you the same value of
CI but we usually put in the square
there just as a as a convention that
people use for k-means so that was the
cluster assignment step the other in the
loop of k-means does the move centroid
step
and what that does is for each of my
cluster centroids so if a lowercase K
equals one through K it sets new K
equals to the average of the points
assigned to cluster so as a concluding
example let's say that so one of my
cluster centroid says the cluster
centroid two has training examples you
have one five six and ten assigned to it
and what this means is really this means
that C 1 equals 2 C 5 equals 2 C 6
equals 2 and similarly while C 10 equals
2 right if we got that from the cluster
assignment step then that means that
examples 1 5 6 and 10 were assigned to
cluster centrality then in this move
central is that what I'm going to do is
just compute the average of these four
things so X 1 plus X 5 plus X 6 plus X
10 and then I'm going to average them so
here I have four points assigned to this
cluster centroid so just take one
quarter of that and now mu2 is going to
be an n-dimensional vector because each
of these examples X 1 X 5 X 6 X 10 each
of them were an n-dimensional vector and
when I add up these things and you
divide by 4 because I have four points
of signs of the centroid I end up with
my move centroid step for my cluster
centroid mewtwo and this has the effect
of moving you two to be average of those
four points listed here one thing to
have sometimes malice ISM well here we
said let's get new K be the average of
the points assigned to that cluster but
what if there's a cluster or what if
there's a cluster centroid with no
points with zero points assigned to it
in that case the more common thing to do
is to just eliminate that cluster
centroid and if you do that you end up
with K minus 1 clusters instead of K
clusters
oh but sometimes if you really need K
clusters then the other thing you can do
if you have a cluster centroid with no
points assigned to it is you can just
randomly reinitialize that cluster
centroid but it is a more common to just
eliminate the cluster if somewhere
during canyons it ends up with no points
it assigned to that cluster centroid and
that can't happen although in practice
it happens not so that's the k-means
algorithm
before wrapping up this video I just
want to tell you about one other common
application of k-means - and that's -
the problems with non well separated
clusters here's what I mean so far we've
been picturing k-means and applying it
to data sets like that shown here where
we have pretty where we have three
pretty well separated clusters and we'd
like an algorithm to find maybe the
three clusters for us but it turns out
that very often k-means is also applied
to data sets that look like this where
they may not be you know several very
well separated clusters here's an
example application on to t-shirt sizing
so let's say you're a t-shirt
manufacturer and what you've done is
you've gone to the population that you
want to sell t-shirts to and you've
collected a number of examples of the
height and weight of these people in
your population so then I guess height
and weight tend to be positively
correlated and so maybe you end up with
a data set like this you know with a
sample set of examples of different
people's height and weight let's say you
want to size your t-shirts let's say I
want to you know design and sell
t-shirts of three sizes small medium and
large so how big should I make my small
and how big should I make my medium and
how bitumen should I make my large
t-shirts one way to do this would be to
run the k-means clustering algorithm on
this data set that I have shown on the
right and maybe what k-means will do is
group all of these points into one
cluster and group all of these points
into a second cluster and group all of
those points into a third cluster so
even though the data you know beforehand
it does seem like we have three well
separated clusters k-means we're kind of
separate the kind of separate out the
data into multiple clusters for you and
what you can do is then look at this
first population of people and look at
them and you know
at the height and weight and try to
design a small t-shirt so that kind of
fits this first population of people
well and then design a medium t-shirt
and design a large t-shirt and this is
in fact kind of an example of market
segmentation where you're using k-means
to separate your market into three
different segments so you can design a
product separately that is the small
medium and large teachers that tries to
suit the needs of each of your three
separate popular subpopulations well so
that's the k-means algorithm and by now
you should know how to implement the
k-means algorithm and kind of get it to
work for some problems but in the next
few videos what I want to do is really
get more deeply into the nuts and bolts
of k-means and talk a bit about how to
actually get this work really well